CV - Grafana Loki health source (#2221)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-delivery/verify/configure-cv/verify-deployments-with-loki.md

---
title: Grafana Loki
description: Verify deployments with Grafana Loki. 
sidebar_position: 8
helpdocs_is_private: false
helpdocs_is_published: true
---

> # Set up Grafana Loki health source

Author: Yes, thats the goal. Just started with this new topic.

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

Harness Continuous Verification (CV) integrates with Grafana Loki to:

* Verify that the deployed service is running safely and performing automatic rollbacks.
* Apply machine learning to every deployment to identify and flag anomalies in future deployments.

> This topic describes how to set up a Grafana Loki health source when adding a CV step to your Continuous Deployment (CD).

Author: Updated

## Set up continuous verification

To set up CV, you need to configure a Service Reliability Management (SRM)-monitored service. A monitored service is a mapping of a Harness service to a service that is being monitored by your Application Performance Monitoring (APM) or logging tool.

> ## Add Verify Step

Author: Updated.

> 

Author: Good suggestion! I will implement this when I take up complete overhaul of CV topics.

To add a Verify step to your pipeline, use one of the methods below.

### Add a Verify step while building a deployment stage

If you're building a deployment stage and are currently on the **Execution Strategies** page:

1. Select the **Enable Verification** option. 
    
   The Verify step gets added to the pipeline.

2. Select the **Verify** step.  
   
   The Verify settings page appears.

### Add a Verify step to an existing deployment stage

If you already have a deployment stage:

1. Select the stage where you want to add the Verify step.
   
2. On the stage settings pane, select the **Execution** tab.
3. On the pipeline, hover over where you want to add the Verify step, select the **+** icon, and then choose **Add Step**.  

   The Step Library page appears.
You can add a step at various points in the pipeline, such as the beginning, end, in between existing steps, or below an existing step. Simply choose the location where you want to add the step and follow the prompts to add it.

4. In the **Continuous Verification** section, select **Verify**.  
   
   The Verify settings page appears.

> ## Define name and time out information

Author: Updated

1. In **Name**, enter a name for the Verification step.
   
2. In **Timeout**, enter a timeout value for the step. Harness uses this information to time out the verification. Use the following syntax to a define timeout:
   - **w** for weeks. For example, to define one week, enter 1w.
   - **d** for days. For example, to define 7 days, enter 7d.
   - **h** for hours. For example, to define 24 hours, enter 24h.
   - **m** for minutes, For example, to define 100 minutes, enter 100m.
   - **s** for seconds. For example, to define 500 seconds, enter 500s.
   - **ms** for milliseconds. For example, to define 1000 milliseconds, enter 1000ms.

> 

Author: Great idea!!

The maximum timeout value you can set is **53w**. You can also set timeouts at the pipeline level.
 

> ## Select a continuous verification type, sensitivity, and duration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Select a continuous verification type, sensitivity, and duration
```

Author: Avoiding step numbers in the heading.

> 1. In **Continuous Verification Type**, select a type that matches your deployment strategy. The following options are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **Continuous Verification Type**, select one of the type below:
```

Author: Good suggestion :)

   - **Blue Green**: Blue-green deployment is a technique used to deploy services to a production environment by gradually shifting user traffic from an old version to a new one. The previous version is referred to as the blue environment, while the new version is known as the green environment. Upon completion of the transfer, the blue environment remains on standby in case of a need for rollback or can be removed from production and updated to serve as the template for future updates.
   - **Load Test**: Load testing is a strategy used in lower-level environments, such as quality assurance, where a consistent load is absent and deployment validation is typically accomplished through the execution of load-generating scripts. This is useful to ensure that the application can handle the expected load and validate that the deployment is working as expected before releasing it to the production environment.

> 

Reviewer: The above is fairly dense and wordy, so it would be good to add some white space between bullets for more usability.

   
3. In **Duration**, choose a duration. Harness uses the data points within this duration for analysis. For instance, if you select 10 minutes, Harness analyzes the first 10 minutes of your log or APM data. It is recommended to choose 10 minutes for logging providers and 15 minutes for APM and infrastructure providers. This helps you thoroughly analyze and detect issues before releasing the deployment to production.
   
4. In the **Artifact Tag** field, reference the primary artifact that you added in the **Artifacts** section of the Service tab. Use the Harness expression `<+serviceConfig.artifacts.primary.tag>` to reference this primary artifact. To learn about artifact expression, go to [Harness expression](..//..platform/../../../platform/12_Variables-and-Expressions/harness-variables.md).
   
5. Select **Fail On No Analysis** if you want the pipeline to fail if there is no data from the health source. This ensures that the deployment fails when there is no data for Harness to analyze.

> ## Create a monitored service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Create a monitored service
```

Author: Avoiding step number in heading

> Harness CV monitors the health trend deviations using logs and metrics obtained from the health source, such as APM and logging tools, via a monitored service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness CV uses a monitored service to monitor health trend deviations, using logs and metrics obtained from the health source, such as APM and logging tools.
```

Author: Updated

To create a monitored service:

> 1. In the **Monitored Service Name** section, select **Click to autocreate a monitored service**.

Reviewer: There's no context here. User doesn't know where they are (whenever there's a heading, assume it's self-contained and you must give some context on there the user is at this point).

      Harness automatically generates a monitored service name by combining the service and environment names. The generated name appears in the **Monitored Service Name** field. Note that you cannot edit the monitored service name.

      If a monitored service with the same name and environment already exists, the **Click to autocreate a monitored service** option is hidden, and the existing monitored service is assigned to the Verify step by Harness.

:::info note

If you've set up a service or environment as runtime values, the auto-create option for monitored services won't be available. When you run the pipeline, Harness combines the service and environment values to create a monitored service. If a monitored service with the same name already exists, it will be assigned to the pipeline. If not, Harness skips the Verification step.

For instance, when you run the pipeline, if you input the service as `todolist` and the environment as `dev`, Harness creates a monitored service with the name `todolist_dev`. If a monitored service with that name exists, Harness assigns it to the pipeline. If not, Harness skips the Verification step.

:::

> 

Reviewer: indent the note above

Author: Updated

> ![Autocreate monitored service](./static/cv-sumologic-autocreate-monitoredservice.png)

Reviewer: This should be above the procedure not below... it really helps with the **context** comment I added to the start of the monitored service step.

Author: Great suggestion!

> ## Add a health source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Add a health source for the monitored service
```

Author: I would leave as is as saying "for the monitored service" alters the meaning.

A health source is an APM or logging tool that monitors and aggregates data in your deployment environment.

> ### Define health source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Define a health source
```

Author: Updated

To add a health source:

> 1. In the **Health Sources** section, select **+ Add New Health Source**.

Reviewer: In the Health Sources section of the [whatever the screen name is]... 

(this again is to make the context clear)

Author: Updated

 

### Define log configuration settings

1. In the Configuration tab, select **+ Add Query**.  
   
   The Add Query dialog appears.

2. Enter a name for the query and then select **Submit**.  
   
   The query that you added gets listed under **Logs Group**. The query specification and mapping settings are displayed.
   These settings help you retrieve the desired logs from the Grafana Loki platform and map them to the Harness service. 

#### Define a query

   
1. In the **Query** field, enter a log query and select **Run Query** to execute it.
   
    A sample record in the **Records** field. This helps you confirm the accuracy of the query you've constructed.
   
2. In the **Field Mapping** section, select **+** to map the **service instance identifiers** to select the data that you want to be displayed from the logs.

3. Select **Get sample log messages**.  
   
   Sample logs are displayed that help you verify if the query is correct.

<details>
<summary><b>Sample log query</b></summary>

Query for showing data from all filenames, except for syslog: `{filename=~".+",filename!="/var/log/syslog"}`

![Grafana Loki sample query](./static/cv-loki-log-query.png)

</details>

> 

Reviewer: indent the sample log query

Author: Updated

### Save the health source settings

1. After configuring all the settings, select **Submit** to add the health source to the Verify step.
   
2. Select **Apply Changes** to save the changes made to the Verify step.

> ## Run the pipeline

Reviewer: Note, I think starting with this heading you no longer need the high level "Step x" since those are just for adding this health source.

Author: Agreed
